README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src ="Resources/Logo.png" width=400 />
</p>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet">
        <img src="https://badge.fury.io/gh/danielsaidi%2FSheeeeeeeeet.svg?style=flat" alt="Version" />
    </a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/Vandelay.svg?style=flat" alt="Platform" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-5.1-orange.svg" alt="Swift 5.1" />
    <img src="https://badges.frapsoft.com/os/mit/mit.svg?style=flat&v=102" alt="License" />
    <a href="https://twitter.com/danielsaidi">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/contact-@danielsaidi-blue.svg?style=flat" alt="Twitter: @danielsaidi" />
    </a>
</p>


## <a name="about"></a>About Sheeeeeeeeet

Sheeeeeeeeet helps you create menus that can be used as context menus and action sheets. It comes with many item types (standard items, buttons, titles, toggles etc.) and can be extended with custom ones.

<p align="center">
    <img src ="Resources/Demo.gif" />
</p>

Sheeeeeeeeet action sheets can be styled to look just like a `UIAlertController` or completely different. You can also customize how they are presented and dismissed.



--- 

## <a name="migration-guide"></a>**Sheeeeeeeeet 3 migration guide**

Sheeeeeeeeet 3 contains many breaking changes, but once you understand the model changes, you will hopefully see the improvements it brings and be able to migrate your apps pretty easily. See [this migration guide][Migration-Guide] for help.

---


## Installation

### <a name="spm"></a>Swift Package Manager

The easiest way to add Sheeeeeeeeet to your project in Xcode 11 is to use Swift Package Manager:
```
https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet.git
```

### <a name="cocoapods"></a>CocoaPods

```ruby
pod "Sheeeeeeeeet"
```

### <a name="carthage"></a>Carthage

```
github "danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet"
```

### <a name="manual-installation"></a>Manual installation

To manually add `Sheeeeeeeeet` to your app, clone this repository, add `Sheeeeeeeeet.xcodeproj` to your project and `Sheeeeeeeeet.framework` as an embedded app binary and target dependency.


## <a name="basic-example"></a>Creating a menu

With Sheeeeeeeeet, you start off by creating a menu, like this:

```swift
let item1 = MenuItem(title: "Int", value: 1)
let item2 = MenuItem(title: "Car", value: Car())
let button = OkButton(title: "OK")
let items = [item1, item2, button]
let menu = Menu(title: "Select a type", items: items)
```

There are many built-in menu item types, e.g. regular and selectable items, links, buttons, titles, collections, custom items etc. You find a complete list in [this item guide][Item-Types].

### Present the menu as an action sheet

You can present the menu as a custom action sheet or use it to create an action sheet, which you can then configure in any way you want, for instance:

```swift
menu.presentAsActionSheet(in: vc, from: view, action: ...)
```

You can find more information and options in [this action sheet guide][Action-Sheets]. You can also read more about styling the sheets in [this appearance and styling guide][Appearance].


### Add the menu as a context menu

You can also add the menu as an iOS 13 context menu to any view you like, for instance:

```swift
let delegate = menu.addAsContextMenu(to: view, action: ...)
```

You can find more information in [this context menu guide][Context-Menus].


### Present the menu as an alert controller

You can also present the menu as a `UIAlertController`, for instance:

```swift
let delegate = menu.presentAsAlertController(in: self, from: view, action: ...)
```

You can find more information in [this alert controller guide][Alert-Controllers].


## <a name="advanced-example"></a>Advanced example

When you have the basics under control, check out [this advanced example][Advanced-Example] to see how you can take things further.


## Demo App

This repo contains a demo app that demonstrates different types of menus and use cases (present menus as action sheet and context menu etc.), as well as how to handle subclassing, appearances etc.


## Contact me

Feel free to reach out if you have questions or if you want to contribute in any way:

* E-mail: [daniel.saidi@gmail.com][Email]
* Twitter: [@danielsaidi][Twitter]
* Web site: [danielsaidi.com][Website]


## License

Sheeeeeeeeet is available under the MIT license. See LICENSE file for more info.


[Email]: mailto:daniel.saidi@gmail.com
[Twitter]: http://www.twitter.com/danielsaidi
[Website]: http://www.danielsaidi.com

[Carthage]: https://github.com/Carthage
[CocoaPods]: http://cocoapods.org
[GitHub]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet
[License]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/LICENSE
[Pod]: http://cocoapods.org/pods/Sheeeeeeeeet
[SheeeeeeeeetRef]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l1dnqKGuezo

[Action-Sheets]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Action-Sheets.md
[Advanced-Example]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Advanced-Example.md
[Appearance]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Appearance.md
[Context-Menus]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Context-Menus.md
[Item-Types]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Item-Types.md
[Migration-Guide]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Migration-Guide.md

Commit message:

Make final adjustments to make the project work with Carthage

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src ="Resources/Logo.png" width=400 />
</p>

<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet">
        <img src="https://badge.fury.io/gh/danielsaidi%2FSheeeeeeeeet.svg?style=flat" alt="Version" />
    </a>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/Vandelay.svg?style=flat" alt="Platform" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Swift-5.1-orange.svg" alt="Swift 5.1" />
    <img src="https://badges.frapsoft.com/os/mit/mit.svg?style=flat&v=102" alt="License" />
    <a href="https://twitter.com/danielsaidi">
        <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/contact-@danielsaidi-blue.svg?style=flat" alt="Twitter: @danielsaidi" />
    </a>
</p>


## <a name="about"></a>About Sheeeeeeeeet

Sheeeeeeeeet helps you create menus that can be used as context menus and action sheets. It comes with many item types (standard items, buttons, titles, toggles etc.) and can be extended with custom ones.

<p align="center">
    <img src ="Resources/Demo.gif" />
</p>

Sheeeeeeeeet action sheets can be styled to look just like a `UIAlertController` or completely different. You can also customize how they are presented and dismissed.



--- 

## <a name="migration-guide"></a>**Sheeeeeeeeet 3 migration guide**

Sheeeeeeeeet 3 contains many breaking changes, but once you understand the model changes, you will hopefully see the improvements it brings and be able to migrate your apps pretty easily. See [this migration guide][Migration-Guide] for help.

---


## Installation

### <a name="spm"></a>Swift Package Manager

The easiest way to add Sheeeeeeeeet to your project in Xcode 11 is to use Swift Package Manager:
```
https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet.git
```

### <a name="cocoapods"></a>CocoaPods

```ruby
pod "Sheeeeeeeeet"
```

### <a name="carthage"></a>Carthage

```
github "danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet"
```

### <a name="manual-installation"></a>Manual installation

To manually add `Sheeeeeeeeet` to your app, clone this repository, add `Sheeeeeeeeet.xcodeproj` to your project and `Sheeeeeeeeet.framework` as an embedded app binary and target dependency.


## <a name="basic-example"></a>Creating a menu

With Sheeeeeeeeet, you start off by creating a menu, like this:

```swift
let item1 = MenuItem(title: "Int", value: 1)
let item2 = MenuItem(title: "Car", value: Car())
let button = OkButton(title: "OK")
let items = [item1, item2, button]
let menu = Menu(title: "Select a type", items: items)
```

There are many built-in menu item types, e.g. regular and selectable items, links, buttons, titles, collections, custom items etc. You find a complete list in [this item guide][Item-Types].

### Present the menu as an action sheet

You can present the menu as a custom action sheet or use it to create an action sheet, which you can then configure in any way you want, for instance:

```swift
menu.presentAsActionSheet(in: vc, from: view, action: ...)
```

You can find more information and options in [this action sheet guide][Action-Sheets]. You can also read more about styling the sheets in [this appearance and styling guide][Appearance].


### Add the menu as a context menu

You can also add the menu as an iOS 13 context menu to any view you like, for instance:

```swift
let delegate = menu.addAsContextMenu(to: view, action: ...)
```

You can find more information in [this context menu guide][Context-Menus].


### Present the menu as an alert controller

You can also present the menu as a `UIAlertController`, for instance:

```swift
let delegate = menu.presentAsAlertController(in: self, from: view, action: ...)
```

You can find more information in [this alert controller guide][Alert-Controllers].


## <a name="advanced-example"></a>Advanced example

When you have the basics under control, check out [this advanced example][Advanced-Example] to see how you can take things further.


## Demo App

This repository contains a demo app that demonstrates different types of menu and menu items. It lets you present menus as action sheets and context menus and also shows you how to create menu and menu item subclasses, how to customize menu appearances etc.

To test the demo app, just open and run the `Sheeeeeeeeet.xcodeproj` Xcode project.


## Contact me

Feel free to reach out if you have questions or if you want to contribute in any way:

* E-mail: [daniel.saidi@gmail.com][Email]
* Twitter: [@danielsaidi][Twitter]
* Web site: [danielsaidi.com][Website]


## License

Sheeeeeeeeet is available under the MIT license. See LICENSE file for more info.


[Email]: mailto:daniel.saidi@gmail.com
[Twitter]: http://www.twitter.com/danielsaidi
[Website]: http://www.danielsaidi.com

[Carthage]: https://github.com/Carthage
[CocoaPods]: http://cocoapods.org
[GitHub]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet
[License]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/LICENSE
[Pod]: http://cocoapods.org/pods/Sheeeeeeeeet
[SheeeeeeeeetRef]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l1dnqKGuezo

[Action-Sheets]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Action-Sheets.md
[Advanced-Example]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Advanced-Example.md
[Appearance]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Appearance.md
[Context-Menus]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Context-Menus.md
[Item-Types]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Item-Types.md
[Migration-Guide]: https://github.com/danielsaidi/Sheeeeeeeeet/blob/master/Readmes/Migration-Guide.md
